the White House says the US doesn't
believe a genocide is taking place in
Gaza our White House correspondent kimy
halard is following the story and ask
National Security adviser Jake Sullivan
why more than 35,000 Palestinians have
been killed as a result of Israel's war
on Gaza still National Security adviser
Jake Sullivan says the Biden
Administration does not see the killing
of Palestinians by Israel as genocide
even as a un report presented back in
March says there are reasonable grounds
to believe that Israel is committing
genocide as defined under international
law how can you say genocide is not
being committed as I just told you I
think the best way for me to answer that
question is actually to ask you to look
at the lay down that we gave which are
you saying this isn't happening are you
saying that she's a
liar the United States is laid down at
the international court of justice in
writing in detail its position on this
issue and I'd ask you to read it the
National Security adviser also said
there could be a ceasefire in Israel's
war on Gaza if Hamas releases the
hostages he's calling on the
International Community to pressure
Hamas to return to the negotiating table
and accept a deal Kimberly H at alaz the
White House a US Army Officer has
resigned from the military in protest of
us support for Israel's war on Gaza the
US supports Israel with nearly $4
billion worth of military aid every year
Major Harrison man who was working at
the defense intelligence agency posted
an open letter on the social media site
LinkedIn that accuses the US of nearly
unqualified support for the government
of Israel which has enabled and
empowered The Killing and starvation of
tens of thousands of innocent
Palestinians he continues to State this
unconditional Support also encourages
Reckless escalation that risks wider War
let's go to Patty ghain who's following
this from Washington DC and Patty what
more can you tell
us well Major Harrison man had been with
the Army for about 13 years with the
specialization in Middle East policy
worked at an embassy now he was
currently he had been working at the
defense intelligence agency focusing on
the Middle East that's a fairly powerful
agency within the Pentagon but now he
has released as you mentioned this open
letter and he basically said my work
however administrative or marginal it
may seem has uh has continued to
unquestionably unquestionably continue
to that support he gave a little bit of
his history saying as a descendant of
European Jews he was raised in a
particularly uh moral environment when
it came to bearing responsibility for
ethnic cleansing so really very strong
words from the major and uh then he said
at some point whatever justification
you're either advancing a policy that
enables the mass starvation of children
or you're not now he resigned November
1st early from uh the DIA and said at
the time people asked him why did you
quit early and you don't have a job
lined up and he didn't really go public
until now possibly because of what's
happening in Rafa and he sent this a
note to uh other team members saying you
know I thought you I didn't have any
support perhaps you're struggling with
this as well and not every can quit I
don't expect you to do that but just
know you're not alone now we've reached
out to the Army for any sort of comment
we haven't heard back yet don't know if
he's the first one uh person from the
Armed Forces to quit because of this we
do know that there have been a few
resignations within the state department
a man who worked in the weapons transfer
department a woman who worked with human
rights and another who was the Arabic
spokesman for the state department and
they've all been very public about why
they've left at the same time we are
seeing report after report that within
the internal Communications they've a
descent Channel at the state department
lots of cables saying that the US needs
to change policy same with us Aid uh but
as far as publicly quitting the Pentagon
because of this this seems to be the
first now again a major is very much a
mid-level manager but uh it is again
notable because he's making his descent
public many thanks paty gohain there for
his life in Washington DC okay let's
unpack some of the day's developments
now with Al jazer senior political
analyst Maron bashara who's here with me
in the studio I want to focus Maran if
we may on these lines that have been
coming out of Washington from the US
National Security advisor Jake Sullivan
but before we do I want to flag
something that Benjamin Netanyahu said
on a podcast earlier on in the day he
said tensions with the US are making it
harder for Israel to get the captives
out and now we've had the US coming out
affirming its support for Israel and its
plans in
Gaza it's it's incredulous what's going
on between uh natano and Biden Nano and
the United States of course natano is
famous for blaming everyone else for his
own failure and betraying
everyone he almost everyone in Israel
who who works with Netanyahu or is no
longer working with Netanyahu has
already accused Netanyahu of either
backstabbing or lying right I think
Biden is discovering that himself
there's certainly a Netanyahu fatigue at
the White House there's an Israel
fatigue in the United States and in the
rest of the world there's a Netanyahu
fatigue and an Israel fatigue because of
the unraveling genocide on our TV
screens I think people are just getting
fed up with more of the same with not
anything changing right and using the
same excuses and this is the thing with
we've heard from Washington as well of
course as from Israel because Washington
seems to be
parting uh the lines coming out of
natano and his government about this and
that happening in Gaza but it was really
just so nonsensical hearing Jack Jake
Sullivan repeating more of the same
mantras that already been debunked over
the past seven months about why there
are such huge loss of life in Gaza uh
clearly the bombing of hospitals schools
universities and so on cannot all be you
know reduced to oh Hamas Heights between
civilian
population there's a chorus of uh
Nations around the world that believe
what's happening in Gaza is very much a
genocide but um one of the things that
Jake Sullivan said categorically is that
right now Washington doesn't believe it
is a genocide at all it also said it
supports Israel in the destruction of
Hamas uh and also believes Israel's
operation
in Rafa is quote targeted what do words
like this indicate at this current time
what sort of message does it send Israel
in terms of its ongoing plans and
strategy for Gaza
impunity Israel could act with impunity
thanks to the United States because
somehow the Biden Administration
especially Sullivan and blinkin tend to
always find a way to justify Y what
Israel is doing defend what Israel is
doing or reinterpret what Israel is
doing or saying better than the Israelis
are doing it themselves it's really
amazing to find these sort of defense
lawyers or national security advisor and
secretary of state of Israel rather than
the United States but be that as it may
um I think the the main problem in all
of this is that the United States
continues to be complicit and the Biden
admin ation is not able to
escape being uh sort of backed into a
corner if you will in this election year
it's already lost uh big time in the
five or seven uh swing States today's
poll in the published in the New York
Times shows that Biden is really losing
big time in important states that will
really render him the loser of this
coming election but the same time the
Republicans are even going Beyond him
talking about flattening Israel nuking
uh sorry flattening Palestine Gaza even
nuking suggesting nuking Gaza and so on
so forth the best way for him to have
kind of got out of this mess is to
insist on a ceasefire but Netanyahu does
not want a ceasefire the generals in
Israel do not want a ceasefire the the
security cabinet of fascists and
Fanatics do not want a cease fire so
here we are we find ourselves on the
logic of uh
full-blown eventually invasion of Rafa
whether the United States likes it or
not but the United States continues to
be lost in its own logic as always my
many thanks my bash
there make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from ALG